and this is not about placing human
rights on to the lives of animals
because that's what crazy vegans do
Avenue C n I'm making an argument that
our obsession with what's most efficient
is causing us to objectify other living
beings and not just animals look how
quickly our to ignore the rights of
humans who work in the factories to
produce the food that ends up on our
plates when we compromise people's civil
rights in order to maximize profit we
start seeing our fellow human beings as
objects to be used rather than partners
in a respectful and dignified society
but it doesn't have to be this way just
like it didn't used to be this way just
like it didn't used to be this way
animals live symbiotically with humanity
for most of human history when we cared
for their needs gave them room to roam
nutritionally appropriate food to eat so
that when it came time to take their
lives we monitored that life this is a
response to a new video that just went
up from me MV Alok
Mayim Bialik is an actress retired
actress I believe who is more famous
than I'm ever gonna be she's an example
of someone who was thrust into a
leadership role at veganism whether or
not she wants one and I say that with
all due sympathy I've said that in the
past about other people in veganism some
of these people did not ask to take on a
leadership role they're not prepared to
take on a leadership role and we should
not place on them unrealistic
expectations just because their fame may
be their success as an athlete their
success as an actress or a singer or
something puts them in the position of
being a sort of spokesperson for
veganism it's a position they never got
elected to and they never ran for
election to I think they didn't ask for
this they with Mayim Bialik is vegan and
she's put out a video that's just
basically called why I'm a vegan and the
sad fact is that this is actually an
anti vegan argument it actually doesn't
support veganism this if anything
supports so-called animal welfare ISM
and excuses for eating meat provided
that the production of that meat is not
industrialized factory farming so this
is kryptonite to veganism this is the
argument we
dealing with and the most of us are very
frustrated having heard from people
again and again but it's your presented
by Mayim Bialik as if it were a pro-v an
argument as if it were her a reason for
being vegan and it may be on a personal
level now again to be fair
Mayim Bialik is not the only problem
here I just recently did a book review
talking about a book published by a
respected vegan animal rights activist
with the PhD who's a university
professor and even though it's
ostensibly you know this is the voice of
one of our leaders in the movement when
you actually get into the nitty-gritty
it's not really a Pro vegan argument in
some important ways it's anti vegan he
makes excuses for eating chicken eggs
under some circumstances he makes
excuses for a range of animal
exploitation he has his own sort of
philosophy of animals being members of
our society and therefore human beings
exploit them for the labor and we all
live in a big happy animal exploiting
commune and somebody's got to put their
foot down and say this is not vegan this
is not a Pro vegan argument this is not
this is bad for the movement etc so
those those types of things can come
from people who are in legitimate
leadership positions or de facto
leadership positions all right so that's
2 minutes and 30 seconds explaining why
the hell I'm gonna criticize Mayim
Bialik and moving on um her heart may be
in the right place
Mayim Bialik does not front-load this
argument she back loads it at the very
end of the video she admits what her
agenda is or what her thesis is and she
says that her reason for being vegan is
that currently meat is produced through
this factory farming industrialized
system she states that her real thesis
at the end is that the pursuit of
efficiency but which she means the
pursuit of economic efficiency leads to
the exploitation of animals and the
exploitation of man by man the
exploitation of human beings
exploitation of labour and she says it
doesn't have to be this way it wasn't
always this way
she alludes back to a glorified past to
the bucolic days of yore when in ancient
history human beings would
kill animals one at a time with a knife
or a hatchet and somehow that's so much
morally superior to killing animals on a
factory line if you're vegan you
disagree with her argument root and
branch although she kind of gradually
it's only a six minute video I think but
she kind of gradually draws you into
what her argument is only admits at the
end what our argument is which is not
really an argument for veganism um it's
an argument for return to a more
primitive methods of farming which she
uncritically adulate s-- as being
morally superior to our modern
economically efficient systems of
farming and slaughtering and
what-have-you now I think our hearts in
the right place
I think she's speaking out of total
ignorance but what she's saying
nevertheless I have to come on camera
and tell you is bad and misleading and
stupid and wrong I have been on
traditional farms completely inefficient
non-industrialized farms using ancient
methods from the Western tradition and
have been on farms in Asia using
traditional unchanged methods from
Southeast Asian traditions um I'm not
gonna get in the details as to why that
is in terms of my own research interests
where I've lived in the type of work I
do let me tell you something taking a
chicken and chopping its head off is
exactly the same especially from the
chickens perspective I recently got a
very passionate moving email from a
young woman who herself grew up on a
traditional farm a non factory farm and
being shown how to gently take a chicken
and stroked its head and lay its body
down on a towel and lovingly prepare it
to be slaughtered they would Lowell the
chicken into a relaxed state and then
you know throttle it and chop its head
off and she learned this in her
childhood and she learned the
compassionate way to kill a chicken and
took her many years to develop
intellectually and realize no this is
bad and it's wrong and she grew up in a
subculture that basically created an
ethical veneer over what is
fundamentally an unethical and
exploitative activity now again you can
see that in Cambodia and you
see that in Canada you can go and
witness the reality of traditional
farming you know what you'll figure out
this isn't a problem with modern
industrial factory farming methods this
isn't a problem that started in the year
1986 or the year 1996 this is a problem
that goes back to the dawn of human
civilization and you can read ancient
Greek philosophers who on good moral
grounds refused to accept this back in
ancient Greece or back in ancient Rome
if you prefer Latin who looked at the
reality of what animal exploitation and
meat production was before there were
any factory farms before there was any
electricity so this is bad and wrong and
immoral and we can do better we could
live without this in this civilization
and 2,000 years ago that was a very hot
tough call to make you know to live
without wool in a cold climate in an
ancient civilization was very hard to
live without leather in an ancient
civilization was very hard today we have
plastic my watch has a plastic watch
strap I don't got to think about leather
for a minute I don't got to think about
wool you know the availability of cotton
remember there was a time when cotton
was an exotic foreign import in Europe
when Europeans did not have cotton and
they encountered it as this exotic and
wonderful material produced in India of
course over the centuries Europeans
learned how to make cotton from India
from Egypt from other climates and other
civilizations that had it but there was
a time when refusing to wear wool or
refusing to wear leather but you're
almost meant you had to you could only
wear flax you could only wear a few
materials that ancient Europeans has
there was a time when the stakes were
very very high to refuse to engage in an
animal exploitation and today the stakes
are lower and lower it's easier and
easier to be vegan but either you can
see the problem as a matter of principle
or you can't and no offense
Mayim Bialik can't our whole argument
here really is much closer to an
anti-capitalist argument or what she's
claiming is that the essential problem
is exploitation exploitation and the
pursuit of economic efficiency she's
blaming modernity she's blaming
industrialized factory methods she is
she is not using the word capitalism but
she is really blaming capitalism and the
progress of science is that no
and my position is the exact opposite
before I got involved with veganism you
guys probably know I was a scholar of
Buddhism so I've seen the debates over
vegetarianism going back centuries and
centuries within Buddhism I read just as
a university student a lot of ancient
Greek in ancient Roman philosophy you
can see those debates going back there
and that again centuries and centuries
going back in European philosophical
tradition I view this not as the
politics of the decade I view this
problem in terms of the politics of the
millennium goes back millennia and it's
going to go forward millennia also and
Mayim Bialik in her conclusion she very
clearly says her objection is only to
these modern factory farming methods and
that we can do better
but until then until we do better she's
vegan so she even presents vigilant
veganism is only provisional commitment
in her life until such time as she can
buy happy meat produced by these ancient
methods the cheaper zooms are so much
more ethical so this becomes an argument
for free-range happy chickens happily
having their throats slit happily
running around in a garden before
they're killed instead of being in a
being in a cage made out of metal and
concrete etc now I do not think
Mayim Bialik supports her argument
anyway it's convincing so I don't think
I've to say anything more about it I
think there actually is a much more
interesting argument if you talk about
eating wild animals hunting and eating
wild animals I think there there's a
very significant ethical contrast but
the contrast between traditional
pre-modern
farming methods and industrialize
permits I could say if your objection is
only to the in-depth to the
industrialized slaughter of animals and
is not to the slaughter of animals in
principle then simply put you are not
vegan a virus yen